Título: SNL alum Victoria Jackson says she has inoperable cancer
URL: https://www.nme.com/news/snl-alum-victoria-jackson-says-she-has-inoperable-cancer-3784529?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=snl-alum-victoria-jackson-says-she-has-inoperable-cancer

Saturday Night Live alum Victoria Jackson has revealed that she is battling an inoperable cancer and has roughly three years to live.
On Wednesday (August 14), the comedian took to her official Instagram account to share a new video of “Is the Cancer Back?” series in which she disclosed that it is in fact back. Jackson previously battled breast cancer back in 2016.
In the video, she revealed that the cancer diagnosis was positive and that it was unfortunately inoperable. She went on to explain that the doctors would not be able to “operate and cut out the marble in my chest that is laying on my windpipe, and eventually would suffocate me to death.”
Advertisement
Jackson then said that her healthcare providers had sent over a “magic pill” which would be delivered to her home within 12 hours. She explained that the pill contained Ribociclib, a type of cancer growth blocker, which “will shrink the marble, hopefully.”
She added that she had researched life expectancy with the treatment, and that patients who take the medication “have 32.6 months to live. Something like that.”
The caption of the post read: “Cancer Update: I have 34.8 months to live if I don’t get hit by a meteor, shot by a MAGA hater, get Covid again or WWIII breaks out.”
Recommended
Jackson went on to say that she has “had a fantastic life.” Though she has remained positive, she did admit that there were certain things that she was looking forward to such as the birth of her grandchild in October “and get to know him a little. And I would like to see my daughter Aubrey have a baby.”
The actress was a cast member on Saturday Night Live from 1986 to 1992. She made regular appearances on the Weekend Update segment on the series and was known for her impressions including Roseanne Barr and Zsa Zsa Gabor.
Advertisement
Jackson has also appeared in episodes of The X-Files, In the Heat of the Night, Sesame Street and films such as Family Business and The Matchbreaker.