Título: Matthew Perry’s stepfather comments on arrests: “We look forward to justice taking its course”
URL: https://www.nme.com/news/tv/matthew-perrys-stepfather-comments-on-arrests-we-look-forward-to-justice-taking-its-course-3784518?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=matthew-perrys-stepfather-comments-on-arrests-we-look-forward-to-justice-taking-its-course

Matthew Perry‘s stepfather Keith Morrison has opened up about the recent arrests made in connection to the Friends actor’s death.
Yesterday (August 15), five people were arrested in connection with Perry’s death, including his personal assistant and two of his doctors. US federal authorities held a press conference in Los Angeles and stated that their investigation had uncovered a “broad criminal network” of ketamine suppliers that “took advantage” of Perry’s addiction issues.
The actor was found dead at his Los Angeles home on October 28, aged 54. An autopsy report ruled his manner of death to be accidental and showed that he died from the acute effects of ketamine, with contributing factors including drowning.
Now, Morrison – Perry’s stepfather and correspondent for Dateline NBC – has shared a statement about the arrests. “We were and still are heartbroken by Matthew’s death, but it has helped to know law enforcement has taken his case very seriously,” he wrote.
Advertisement
He continued: “We look forward to justice taking its course and we’re grateful for the exceptional work of the multiple agencies whose agents investigated Matthew’s death. We’re hoping unscrupulous suppliers of dangerous drugs will get the message.”
Earlier this year, Morrison discussed Perry’s death while appearing as a guest with Hoda Kotb on the Making Spaces podcast. “He felt like he was beating it [drug and alcohol addictions]. But you never beat it, and he knew that too,” he said
Recommended
The actor’s mother, Suzanne Perry, married Morrison back in 1981. Perry has previously credited Morrison with bringing his family back together following the separation between his parents.
After the arrests, sources close to the actor told USWeekly that Perry’s friends and family were “blindsided” and “saddened” by the arrest of the actor’s personal assistant Kenneth Iwamasa.
“When Matthew’s [previous] assistant left they didn’t hire a new one for a while. Matthew wasn’t acting at the time so someone was needed only to handle his life and around the house. Kenny presented himself to be a decent person,” the source told the outlet.
Advertisement
Others charged in connection with Perry’s death include Jasveen Sangha, who is also known as the ‘Ketamine Queen’, Dr. Mark Chavez and Dr. Salvador Plasencia and another individual, Erik Fleming.
At the time of his death, Perry was receiving ketamine infusion therapy, which is said to help with depression, anxiety, PTSD and addiction problems. He suffered from severe addictions to drugs and alcohol for the majority of his life.
However, his last therapy session reportedly took place just over a week before his death, and the autopsy stated that: “The ketamine in his system at death could not be from that infusion therapy since ketamine’s half-life is three to four hours or less.”
Back in June, the LAPD said that “multiple people” could be charged in relation to Perry’s drug-induced death, with two female celebrities being linked to the incident by the media.